Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
I'm on my way to Gislaved.
to Emma Örtlund.
A couple of years ago
I received a letter from Emma.
Emma describes her longing to be
beautiful. be seen and occupy space.
"Hey. Pär. My name is Emma Örtlund
and I live in Småland.
I have a special charisma.
and wonder if you can help me
become a model.
I have the charisma required.
and a photographer friend
thinks so too.
I've dreamed of this my whole life.
so. what do you say?"
The letter touched me greatly.
because...
it put words to so many things
I experience
in our society. and what I do.
and everything I believe in.
My job is to help those who haven't
had the chance to be seen and shine.
I think Emma really deserves it.
So the letter is the starting point
for why we're on this journey.
CATWALK
FROM GLADA HUDIK TO NEW YORK
-Hey!
-Hey. Emma!
-Are you standing in the stairs?
-I wasn't sure if you'd found it.
-It's so nice to see you.
-You too!
-Is this where you live?
-This is where I live.
-Is my lipstick messy?
-You look great.
Thanks so much.
-What a lovely apartment you have.
-Thank you so much.
-It's fantastic.
-Yes. it's absolutely fantastic.
It's original '80s. that clown.
the pink one over there.
You wrote a letter to me.
I read it many times.
and thought about it and lay
sleepless. "What am I going to do?"
I told you I was on tour
but that wasn't really true.
Oh no?!
I'm here to tell you that
I'm going to try to help you
fulfil your dream.
that you're going to be a real model.
Oh my god. amazing!
You're going to walk on a catwalk.
I'm so happy! Oh my god!
Is this "Candid Camera"? Wow!
Wow. I'm so happy!
-Hey. Ida!
-Hey. there.
-Hey. How are you?
-I'm great.
-I've got some amazing news.
-What is it?
Pär told me
that I'm going to be
photographed as a model
and walk on a catwalk.
And you will too!
-Really?
-Yes. really. Ida!
Wow. gosh. how amazing!
You have such fantastic charisma
and you're so beautiful!
-Damn. how amazing!
-It's so amazing!
-So you and me?
-Yes. and a few others.
SIX MONTHS UNTIL THE CATWALK
I've called you here for a reason.
Together. we're going to do
a fashion show. our own catwalk.
Ida. you're going to transform the
catwalk into something special.
Yes. I can do that.
I don't think anyone's ever seen a
ballerina dance around on a catwalk.
Hillberg. you're Glada Hudik
Theatre's own primadonna.
You have all the necessary qualities.
You're beautiful
and you have your own style.
-You like glitter too. right?
-Mm.
Kitty. you're a person
who embodies fashion.
You're a mix of culture and fashion
that I've never seen.
Alex. you're a very thoughtful person
who can hold the group together well.
You have a charisma
that needs to be absorbed.
-And Emma...
-Yes?
You're the reason
we're sitting here.
Yes.
I think you should have the chance to
shine together with everyone else.
I think so too.
I think everyone's charisma makes
this something very magical.
-It's a dream.
-Yes.
It's really a dream to do this.
I've never been seen before
in my life.
I could never have imagined that
I'd be part of something like this.
-This is a real crying party.
-Sorry. they're tears of happiness!
-Happiness now.
-Yes.
-We'll start by watching a film.
-Okay.
Then you'll see.
-Can you see yourselves there?
-Yes.
You could see there that she had
a little smile. compared to her.
I think that's how you should look
when you walk.
Oh?
Could you look that serious?
No. I'd have been happy.
to show that it's fun.
-Don't they think it's fun?
-They're probably very unhappy...
because they have to diet. I think.
-Are we going to diet for this?
-No. that's not necessary.
You should be able to do things
regardless of how you look
or how you are.
The more we show
how we are as people.
that we're all different
and unique in our different ways.
I actually think the clothes can
become more and more beautiful.
What do you think. Hillberg?
-There.
-Yes.
I have to ask...
Can we do this?
-Yes.
-Absolutely.
It'll be a tough
but fantastic journey.
I don't think we can do it alone.
-No...
-We need help.
I think it's really important
to be a model.
I want people to see
that people like us
who have disabilities
are also unique people.
This is more me
than the job I have now.
-Hey. there.
-Hey.
-I'd like some coffee. please.
-Yes. Coming right up.
So... there you go.
-There. yes.
-A biscuit and coffee.
So. Andreas.
I have some amazing news to tell you.
-Oh?
-Yes. Pär Johansson...
is going to help me
realise my big dream
of becoming a photo model
and walk on a catwalk.
-What's a catwalk?
-It's a fashion show.
You strut like this
and wear nice clothes.
-It's hard. right?
-You just do this. I'll show you.
Oh...
Yep. Pär is so nice.
I think he'll make my dream possible.
-Hey.
-Hey!
Three pieces of sponge cake.
You can put them on a napkin.
There you go.
My problems...
I have epilepsy.
I've had it since I was 15.
The medicines didn't work on me.
So I had seizures really often.
I had it a lot at school
in the dining hall
and at the bus stop.
So I stayed at home.
and didn't do anything.
I didn't go out anywhere.
I didn't dare go out for five years.
I was so very scared
of having seizures.
I was very lonely.
I was so lonely.
Glada Hudik Theatre is comprised
of people with a passion
for what we're doing.
I'm good at finding people
who are better than me.
Who improve this. I shoot
an arrow and people follow it.
Sometimes it misses the target and
others have to get it back on track.
So I'm probably
a really annoying leader. I think.
-You're looking very serious!
-No. We're focused.
This will lead to a fashion show
starting in Hudiksvall.
And then it'll go somewhere.
I've decided. the group doesn't know
yet. that we're going to New York.
For fashion week.
-No...
-Yes.
I can't do it alone.
that's why you're here.
The group doesn't know
that it's New York
and they don't know
it's New York because
then they'd miss the journey there.
The journey is just as important.
You're saying New York...
How certain is that?
I see it is about 83% certain.
-Venue?
-Venue. I'm working on that.
We start with
a traditional fashion show.
Model 1. 2. 3. 4 will display clothes
that are placed on bodies
within that industry.
Everyone looks the same.
We'll break that mould.
How will the actual...
I've got a thousand thoughts.
Will there be five models?
How many costume changes.
How long will the show be?
We're not after quantity.
we're after quality.
So I think...
I've never done a fashion show but it
should be between 15 and 18 minutes.
I don't know what makes me say that.
but it feels good.
It shouldn't be too long.
It should be vigorous. efficient
and have forward momentum.
-Questions?
-A thousand questions.
Chrystal clear
and a thousand questions.
We're here for a reason. During this
journey. you will become a team.
You'll work together.
We're doing something tomorrow.
I want you to be ready in warm
clothes at 9 o'clock tomorrow.
-Nine... what did you say?
-Nine o'clock.
We're going dog sledding.
Ida doesn't look too happy.
I can see myself falling down.
-Have you done it before?
-No. I've never done it before.
-There's no ice or anything?
-Yes. we're going out on the ice.
So. I found them.
Pink earplugs.
Kitty. Here. There you go.
-Do you want earplugs. Nicklas?
-No. I've got these.
-I don't know if I can do it. Kitty.
-Yeah. you can.
I've got nerves right now.
I'm surely going to fall.
-Get on here.
-Ida. you won't fall off.
You can hold onto me.
-It'll go great.
-Ida. how does it feel? Ida?
I don't understand why I'm doing it.
We're overcoming our fears
and dare to come past this. Right?
-Yes. That's what I have to do.
-You're already on the dogsled.
Yes... But they haven't started.
-So. Lean back against me.
-I don't know...
-I'll wet myself soon.
-Are you scared?
-I'm wetting myself!
-Ida says she'll wet herself soon.
Ida! Look! Watch.
Now hold on!
-Are you okay?
-Yes!
Here we go!
-God. it's amazing!
-Isn't it!
Yes.
Hey. Pär? I've overcome my fear!
Now we're going downhill!
So much fun!
God. it's amazing. Wonderful.
It's wonderful to get to know the
gang. I'm going to be one of them.
It's like I fit in here.
There's so much joy and strength.
We believe in each other.
We've all helped out.
We're strong together.
FIVE MONTHS UNTIL THE CATWALK
-Here I am. Dad!
-Hey. honey!
-Wow. have you hung up the paintings?
-Yes.
I think they're so nice.
-I can understand that.
I painted that picture...
when I was in high school.
I really wanted to go to the ball.
I remember that.
I thought it would be like
Cinderella's ball.
I dreamed and fantasised a lot about
being the queen of the ball.
A guy would be the king of the ball.
But I had so much anxiety
and was bullied and harassed.
So it was a horrible time.
I felt bad every day
I went to school.
-How awful that you had that anxiety.
-Yes. It was really awful.
At school they yelled at me and
called me spastic every day
and pushed me into walls.
They messed with me. a lot.
They weren't nice.
I didn't feel welcome at that school.
But you did something then.
that wasn't so great.
It was really something
you shouldn't do.
I thought.
"If they're mean to me today.
I'll damn well go
and get a big spitball
-and spit on one of them."
-Oh yeah. that was it.
I thought. it's free.
I'd planned to take ketchup or
something with me and tip it on them.
But I thought Dad would get mad
and ketchup costs money.
-"No. I won't do that."
-So it was a spitball instead.
Yeah. that's what it was instead.
What's wrong with me?
Am I really that ugly?
They'll see I'm a fantastic
and beautiful person.
That's what I want them to see.
Now we'll do our own catwalk
and it will be fairly unrestricted.
I'm cleaning out
all the wardrobes at home.
I found lots of sheets.
They'll be our clothes.
Here are lots of sheets.
We'll put them on and make our
own creations out of this.
Yes.
-Okay...
-You look so sceptical.
You have to be creative!
Everyone. take a sheet. Alex!
It's easier to improvise
if you have something on.
-Put a sheet on!
-Look.
-I don't know.
-There!
-Isn't that good?
-Yeah. absolutely.
-Now I've created something.
-We look like a gospel choir.
Check out how good he looks.
gospel guy Alex.
-You look like Tomas Di Leva.
-Is it a sheet for a double bed?
Imagine you're in
a real fashion show.
Let's do the groundwork for this.
Three. two. one. there you go.
Do you see who's arrived?
-Hey! Nice to see you.
-You too!
Our catwalk is becoming
more like an art installation.
We've chosen to start the catwalk
with how it was for the
developmentally handicapped in Sweden
at the start of the 1900s.
-Do you know how it was?
-Yes. a little.
-It wasn't as good as it is now.
-No.
I've brought some photos
from institutions
that show what it looked like.
-They're not pleasant images.
-No. they're really not.
-No.
-It really pisses me off.
Damn. Yuck! You just don't do that.
Everyone is equally valuable.
I think.
-This was pretty unpleasant to see.
-Yeah. really unpleasant.
I recognised many of their
expressions in the pictures
from when I was little
and went to school
because since childhood
I've always been bullied
just because I was different
to all the others.
The expressions of emptiness.
loneliness and despair.
for years. every day.
24 hours a day.
You shouldn't need to be behind bars
just because you're different.
No...
Is it unpleasant that
I show you this?
A little.
What I want is for us to make
a statement where we say
that this isn't okay. In many other
countries it's still like this.
That's how the catwalk will begin.
Frida has something with her.
This is a straitjacket.
The catwalk will start
with Ida standing...
I'll be wearing that.
I'll show the world that I'm free!
We will overcome all the shit.
This won't be a regular catwalk.
but an art installation that touches.
engages. and will be long-wearing.
It will be like a kick in the gut.
Everyone will consider how they want
to live their life. who is seen.
My dream is that everyone in the
group will be an outstretched arm
to everyone who never got
the chance to shine.
And that...
to shut the mouths of everyone
who bullied them
over a long period of time.
Why I want to take it to New York
is a combination of things.
I'm proud that we in Sweden have come
so far with the kind of work I do.
I also want to spread our way of
thinking. make it global.
The hardest place in the world
to do that might be New York.
-When were you thinking?
-Fashion Week is 6-15 September.
-Sometime during then.
-You're choosing a week...
-Do you think it's impossible?
-It's a very hard week.
It's the busiest week in New York.
Everything costs
a million dollars to rent.
It's very late to find anything good.
I know. That's why I came to you.
I know you're opening there.
Have you got a venue
where we can do the catwalk?
A traditional catwalk with audience.
photographers and everything?
Yes. we're doing the whole...
We have a designer doing the clothes.
Choreographers. music. everything.
Unfortunately it doesn't help
in your search for a venue
that you have designers...
No. I know.
We're not sparing any costs.
We're opening in New York.
we're opening before Fashion Week.
Or. the same week. is the idea.
But it's a worksite. Nobody knows it
will be finished. but it's the goal.
Give me a few weeks.
I'll see what we can do.
Okay. gang.
We're going to walk on a catwalk.
You'll do a joint number so we get a
feeling of team spirit going.
We need the beats
and choreographed steps.
Let's give it a try.
From the start.
Let's go. Right. Left.
Hold it. We come forward.
Click. click. click...
Let's do it...
Then right. left.
-There. How did it go?
-A bit fast. but otherwise great.
When I stand here. I'll help out.
I've got a head start since I
designed the steps. It's new for you.
-But we'll let you try it yourselves.
-Okay.
Super!
We have to work more on the pulse
so you feel it.
When we do something together.
we rely on the beat.
especially if the music has
a lot of pulse. like this one will.
-I can't do that.
-Tell me why.
My motor skills aren't what they
should be. They're not good at all.
The whole catwalk project and
choreography is a challenge for me.
I'm afraid if I do something.
I might fall.
Even when I was young.
I had bad balance and motor skills.
I was very sick and had
a congenital heart condition.
I was in hospital a lot. my parents
were very worried about me.
-And those two there.
-I'm happy I'm where I am today.
and get to do what I've dreamed of.
It's been my biggest dream.
to do a fashion show. to dance...
the whole thing.
-How does the catwalk feel?
-Good.
That one got away.
Have you got
a girlfriend or boyfriend?
A boyfriend.
-A boyfriend? Who?
-Magnus Carlsson.
Magnus Carlsson.
Yes.
-How did you meet?
-Yes. we have.
-Are you together?
-Yes...
That's good.
-What's your favourite band?
-ABBA.
-Can you time now? Seven minutes.
-Yes.
Have you got an eye on it? Can you
sing something from Mamma Mia?
-I want music.
-Which song do you know best?
-"Mamma Mia".
-We'll try that one. then.
-Let's see it! Choreography too?
-Yes!
-Hillberg. how long has it been?
-There are five minutes left.
These must be the longest
six minutes in world history.
-Have you got your eye on the clock?
-Yes.
There can't be five minutes left.
It was six minutes. five minutes ago.
-Yes. it is!
-But are you timing?
Yes.
-It's time now.
-It's time now?
Yes.
-Cheers.
FOUR MONTHS UNTIL THE CATWALK
When I started working with this.
I heard all the limitations they had.
If you always focus on the
limitations. there's no progress.
What I've seen over all the
years we've worked.
is that when we pose challenges.
changes happen.
Everyone who means anything
in a context.
and get affirmation that.
"here I am." and "I exist."
that's when people start to grow.
-Have you started?
-Yes.
-Have you started watching?
-Mm.
-You really suit glitter.
-Thank you.
Is it you who...
You didn't bring this. did you?
Yeah. I did.
We want to express: Who are Emma.
Ida. Nicklas. Alex and Kitty?
There are lots of butterflies.
-You like that. Kitty.
-Yes.
-What were you thinking?
-I like glitter and sequins.
Ballerina dresses.
With golden shoes. silver cardigan...
White. glittery ballerina dress.
Gold necklace. various flowers
in my hair and bracelets.
Yes.
-Who's finished?
-I'm finished!
-Hillberg. are you finished?
-Finished!
-Is this you. Nicklas?
-Yes.
When Frida does your clothes.
what should she keep in mind?
-ABBA.
-Yes. it's ABBA.
-You're a bit ABBA.
-Yes.
-What else?
-A dress.
You're fantastic at expressing
yourself. This is all you.
Yes.
I feel a bit of pressure
to live up to their visions.
Many of them want extravagance with
a train and to feel like princesses.
I'm a bit like that too.
-Shall we do the ballgown?
-Yes. please!
With a lot of tulle. I like tulle.
And a nice silk rosette at the waist.
I'd like that on the princess dress.
I get lots of inspiration from you
and what you like.
Yes.
-We'll see how I can put it together.
-Exactly. yes.
-It's exciting.
-So exciting!
-Would you like some cordial?
-Yes. please.
-Look how beautiful Mum was.
-Yes. she was so beautiful.
-How old was she in those pictures?
-That was before we met.
She must have been around 20.
-That's really beautiful.
-She looks like a model.
She looks like a real model.
I asked Mum. before she died.
"Did you never consider
being a photo model?"
And she said.
"No. I never considered it."
I've considered it for a long time.
I really want to be one.
That's beautiful.
That's her friend. Barbro.
Is that Barbro?
The one who was there at...
-Mum's funeral.
-I didn't know that was her.
I miss her so much. every single day.
I miss saying "Mum".
-I miss doing that.
-Yes...
Imagine if I could ring Mum.
and tell her about the catwalk.
I'd love to do that.
Unfortunately I can't call her.
because she's up in heaven.
There you go. Mum.
There... Nice.
Really nice. Forward again.
Great. Put your hand down.
Great. Nice!
Stay there. Nice.
-Welcome!
-Thank you so much.
You can hang your clothes over here.
Get the clothes you have with you.
and we'll choose clothes
for the photo shoot.
-Absolutely!
-Come!
Great!
If you could choose a city to take
the catwalk to. where would it be?
I'd choose either
Stockholm or Gothenburg.
-Gävle.
-Gävle? Okay.
I have to tell them now.
We'll sort out a venue.
We have to book hotels and get visas.
I know. But they need to know
where we're going.
Alexander. a little more this way.
Ida. come forward a little more.
Great work. guys. So wonderful!
Everyone.
our catwalk is going to New York!
What?!
-Really?
-Yep.
I don't believe it.
Wow!
-I've always dreamed of New York.
-We're going to do the catwalk...
at Fashion Week in New York.
That's when everything happens.
-And we'll be there too.
-I always wanted to go to New York.
-Have you?
-Yes.
Perfect.
There. Perfect.
Look into the camera.
So nice!
-Now it's all-in '80s.
-It sure is.
-Is that me?
-That's you.
-How does it feel?
-Great. so fun and totally unreal.
Perfect.
Wow! There it is!
THREE MONTHS UNTIL THE CATWALK
Hey. Alex.
The catwalk is getting closer.
We're practicing proud posture.
Back straight and chest high.
We'll put a book on your head.
You can try walking around
keeping a straight back.
You'll need it on the catwalk later.
Practice. practice.
practice your posture. Alex.
Ugh. bloody hell...
Five. six. seven. eight.
One. two. three. four.
five. six. seven. eight.
Bam. bam. stop. Bam. bam. stop.
Snake. snake. snake.
It's been really hard
to remember the steps to the dance.
that we'll do on the catwalk.
It's difficult and complicated.
We'll do a turn as well.
Back up a bit.
It's these turns we'll do furthest
down the catwalk.
Put one foot out.
Then turn around.
and then continue.
We'll walk a bit further this way.
Foot out and turn around
to get a new focus.
-How did it feel?
-You get a bit dizzy.
-A bit dizzy?
-Yes.
I get a bit dizzy and swaying.
-It's not dangerous to get dizzy.
-I'm just afraid of...
my epilepsy... And the fear of
having a seizure is there as well.
I have a fear of that as well.
Now we have the opportunity
to create new associations
around spins and turns.
So after the catwalk they'll
be your favourite thing.
-My favourite things. okay.
-Well done. Emma.
Here comes
another part of the catwalk.
This applies to you. Kitty.
You're going to do something else.
not just walk.
Annika. what's she going to do?
-You're going to sing.
-Okay!
It's a song called "Silhouettes".
an Avicii song.
It'll be a calm version. You'll enter
in your glittery costume.
and stand there in the middle and
sing. Have you sung in English?
Just once. it was pretty average.
-We'll meet later and go through it.
-Thank you.
Good. We've got a bit to practice.
You can go through the steps.
so we have some working
material to go from.
I didn't really follow that.
You can practice this. Repetition
will help us eventually remember
so that it sits in your body.
Come on people.
we have all seen...
"All." It means "alla".
We have all...
And then all the way back
to the centre.
And forward. Good!
-How did the spin feel?
-A bit dizzy.
-A bit dizzy?
-Yes.
Come with me.
Stretch out. pick an apple here.
an apple there.
Pick an apple there.
and pick an apple there.
Come back to the centre.
Then turn around. Good.
-Do you know what you just did?
-Yes. That.
-You did a spin.
-A spin. Wow!
You did a spin by picking apples.
What you actually did. was to...
You do the same thing.
but you're not thinking about it.
Oh yeah. I wasn't think about it.
I think I'm a bit nervous.
especially when it comes to
singing the song
in that it's the very first time
I'm doing it.
In a country and city I've never been
to and can't even speak the language.
Why it's so important to me
to be seen
isn't because I think I'm special.
I want to convey
what I'm like as a person.
so that others who think there's
a problem with disabled people...
To show them we're not less valuable.
Okay. maybe we're different. yes.
I admit. I have a pair of
makeup sunglasses that I made
that I've worn in town. yes.
I dress in a mix of styles.
that might not always fit together.
But that's who I am.
and I'm not ashamed to be different.
I found out that certain kids
here in town
think I'm retarded. deformed.
dumb. and stupid.
Many think that about us.
but we'll change that.
here and now and on the catwalk.
Since we saw each other last.
I've thought and sketched
and considered your sketches
and who you are and I've tried to
interpret that in my design.
Here. we have glitter.
So you can be glitter deluxe.
Oh. beautiful!
Then there's the wedding dress:
a white lace. glitter flowers.
-Dramatic train.
-It's beautiful.
-Do you think it'll be good?
-Yes. I think so.
-It'll do?
-Yeah. it'll do.
-Are you prepared?
-No. but let's do it.
I'm thinking a real butterfly dream.
since you're the butterfly woman.
Yes.
You've got butterflies everywhere.
It's so lovely.
The butterfly really represents
freedom and breaking free.
Then there's one more.
We have more glitter.
Do you think it will be good?
Yes. It would be nice
to add more butterflies.
-On this one too?
-Yes. exactly. If it's possible.
In this one. there will be
masses of butterflies and flowers.
In this one there's more focus on the
glitter and the skirt and movement.
It's fun when you make two creations
that they're a bit different.
-Do you mean I get two collections?
-Oh. yes.
First. you'll come out in that one.
than you go backstage.
and change into this one.
so you'll have both.
-You're joking?
-No. Oh my god!
-You scared me! Are you that happy?
-Yes!
Come here.
That makes me so happy.
-I'm crying tears of happiness.
-Me too.
Sorry.
-You're so lovely.
-Thank you. so are you.
I really wish you ere my real sister.
How sweet!
She has so much love.
Nobody should ever be mean
to such a lovely person.
God...
She's totally fantastic.
ONE MONTH UNTIL THE CATWALK
We have to think.
What's the first impression we want
to give the public when they arrive?
I'd like to give...
What atmosphere
do you want to create?
I want to create the atmosphere that
I. as a person. am very unsure. shy.
timid. and happily pulls away.
So I'm thinking this shy.
and unsure feeling.
And I'm so...
I find strength and power.
"Here I am."
"You don't ignore me. I'm here and
want to give you joy. Accept it now."
That will make it even more powerful.
that there's an intention.
It will be like a liberation.
Let's go with that.
Hello. Pär.
Jane Broman from Fotografiska.
I'm in New York and looking at the
building. Everything is very delayed.
It's chaos.
it's just a huge construction site.
You'll have to find a venue
some other way.
This won't work. unfortunately.
Good luck. Pär.
-New York!
-You've made it so nice.
Thanks so much.
-Yeah. wow...
-Nice!
So nice. Nicklas.
It'll be so much fun
to go to New York.
-I don't believe it.
-Me neither. I don't either.
We've booked flights and hotels.
Everything is ready.
The problem is the venue. but
we're working day-round on it.
It's the 14th of September.
-Now?
-Yes.
Oh!
We have a dream
to make the catwalk at Fashion
Week in New York in September.
September is less than
one month away.
Because it's the Fashion Week.
Pär set the stakes high when he said
we're going to New York
and that it's all sorted.
-It wasn't all sorted.
-The venue isn't sorted.
-Are you joking?
-No. it's true.
And that's a concern.
I have promised all the people in the
project to go to New York this week.
So I cannot say no now.
Do you have any advice
where we can be to have the catwalk?
No. unfortunately I don't.
We need a location in Manhattan.
and we need a place
for 200-300 people.
It's really soon. and there's a
lot of stuff happening right now.
I mean just to be upfront.
it might be really expensive.
I didn't think the challenge of
a venue would be so extreme.
But now it is.
We've searched like mad.
but we can't find one.
We've looked at 30-40 different
places but nothing has worked.
The situation is getting a bit dicey.
Time is running out.
there are one and a half weeks left.
We've had contact with a woman
who might have a solution.
Hi. Sofia. This is Pär Johansson
from Sweden.
Hello. how are you?
I'm not so good at English but I
hope you're gonna help me. so...
Yeah. I will help you.
We have two floors. we have a
showroom upstairs.
and a big ballroom downstairs
where the show actually takes place.
We also have a VIP press lounge
which of course everyone in your
team will have access to.
I must open the window here.
because this is such good news.
-Oh. thank you!
-I don't believe it. but...
-If you say it's true. I believe you!
-Oh. no. it's true!
This is my best phone call ever.
Oh. thank you!
It's a pleasure speaking with you.
-Same to you. Bye.
-Bye. bye.
Wow!
This is a studio where
you can do lots of different things.
You can make it into almost anything.
It fits more people.
and has more room to do
what we're going to do.
Since we're rehearsing now
and this is the last week.
we have to do a proper catwalk.
One. two. three. four...
ONE WEEK UNTIL THE CATWALK
I'm going to put Swarovski crystals
in these flowers.
You'll glitter like nothing else...
You're totally magical!
You're getting all...
-What are you picking?
-I've decided I'm picking stars.
Stars. okay.
-Which star will you take first?
-Mum's star in heaven.
It's called Solveig.
because Mum's name was Solveig.
We'll gather here. everyone!
It's the last day. and we're going to
do a dress rehearsal.
It's new for everyone. The clothes
and movements are new for you.
It's new to all the dressers here.
So we've decided
that we'll do number one. two.
three and four until lunch.
Everyone will do their own change
and practice getting into the rhythm.
Yes. so we're waiting for Kitty.
How did you get here?
Since I can't sit without my back
almost folding up...
-I walked here.
-You walked here with crutches?
It was either that or lay in bed
at home.
We're doing a run through
with the clothes.
But how do you feel? Is it serious?
I feel like I have so much to learn.
-Try walking and see how it feels.
-So I can join in if it gets better.
Absolutely.
That's why I want to
be here and try.
-You're great. Take your time.
-Okay.
It's nothing to be sorry for.
Now we're rehearsing for real.
We're in New York now.
We seem ready! Let's do the first run
through of the catwalk. Off you go!
Good. Ida!
I feel really sorry for Kitty.
that she's got such bad back pain.
I really feel bad looking at her.
Good! That's great!
I feel really worried.
What happens to the catwalk if Kitty
can't come with us to New York?
Really well done. everyone!
Go home. satisfied with your work.
You've been insanely good.
Soon. we're flying to New York.
We're doing this!
Yes!
-I'll fan you a bit.
-Oh. how nice!
-There.
-That's better.
What if I can't do that?
I'm the one leading you.
I go first.
-It would be chaos.
-It would be.
-No. it's easy for me.
-It's easy for you?
Yes.
-You never make mistakes?
-No.
I'm afraid there will be gangsters
coming up to us
if we walk alone in New York.
I have a lot of fear.
People are usually stressed
in New York.
They usually run.
they walk quickly.
I walk fast.
so that I can't see my shoes.
So sometimes my shoelaces
are undone and I trip on them.
So I might embarrass myself there.
and when I dance with you.
Or something.
I think he's asleep now.
I feel very excited
and really want to show everyone
who has unkind preconceptions of us
that we'll damn well show them
that they're wrong.
God. I'm so pumped.
This is going to be so much fun!
-Has everyone got their passports?
-Yes!
-Is this your first time in the USA?
-Yes. it is.
I'm so excited!
-I can't believe this is New York.
-Me neither.
I still don't believe it.
Are we really in New York?
Should we try to take a picture
with this beautiful background?
Yes. let's.
Excuse me.
can you take a picture of us?
We have to stand together. Ida. come
forward here. Jump down here. Ida.
-It's beautiful.
-Thank you!
Are you a model?
You are so tall and thin.
-So nice of you. No. I'm not a model.
-Okay. You're very beautiful.
Thank you! You are too.
Have a nice day.
Have a nice day too!
-Did she look like a model?
-Yes. very much.
Have you got a question?
Just a minute.
What were you going to ask?
Are you nervous to walk the
catwalk on Saturday?
Yes.
I'm a little nervous when I go on
the catwalk in Saturday.
But I think...
Yeah! This is very fun!
And it is so great.
What are your personal icons.
personal inspiration?
We're talking about fashion.
so what can you guys share?
I love the '80s very much.
Dolce & Gabbana and Gucci.
Yeah! I love it very much.
One second. please.
Why are you doing the catwalk?
What's the purpose?
We're doing it because we want
to show the world
that we're just as unique and good
in our own ways
despite our disabilities.
We also want to try to create
joy and happiness
for those who don't get to
experience this.
Give them hope that they can achieve
great dreams they carry with them.
If you have a great dream you've
dreamed since you were little.
I think you should...
realise it. quite simply.
through contacting...
-Me.
-Yeah. you or someone else.
Tiffany & Company. And Gucci.
-Dolce & Gabbana!
-Look at those sunglasses!
Yeah.
I love this jacket. It costs...
-This one is $848.
-Okay...
I have trouble with money
and it's value.
-It's a hundred-something. right?
-If you think...
-Almost 700.000 for a jacket.
Mine cost a thousand-something
as well. I think.
So add a zero.
One more zero.
Yes. then it's a thousand.
That's expensive.
I'd like one of these.
Me too. I wish I had it.
Thank you. Thank you!
-They were so good!
-Yeah. really good.
-They guys were good.
-The guys.
-They were better.
-You thought they were better?
-They showed their underpants!
-Underpants!
Yes. that's better!
What a cheer from Nicklas
when the guys came in.
Yes!
-Lucky they weren't naked.
-Yeah. thank god!
I probably would have fainted.
-Not over there. over here!
-Come on. Nicklas.
Come on. Nicklas!
Do you remember
when I visited you in Gislaved?
Yes. I remember that.
Now we're here.
Yes. now we're here.
It's totally unbelievable.
I've actually noticed
how I've developed.
I've become more self-assured
and more confident in some way.
I've matured a lot. I think.
I feel much happier now
than what I did before.
-Look at this.
-I see.
-The whole world will look at you.
-The whole world will look at me.
It's completely unbelievable.
Pär...
Tomorrow. this town is ours.
THREE HOURS UNTIL THE CATWALK
I think a marking has ended up in the
wrong place. or we've measured wrong.
-Hello!
-Hey!
It's going to be so much fun!
I thought we'd gather.
Put down your things.
-Here we are.
-Yes. here we are.
-Do you see where we're standing?
-Yeah. on our catwalk!
I thought we'd go through
where our markings are.
-Markings?
-Come and look.
-Here. You stand there. Emma.
-What did you say?
Stand on that line. That's where
you stand when you make an entrance.
Entrance. okay.
-You stand there too. Hillberg.
-I know.
One more thing.
Here. when you turn.
you walk out toward this edge.
And when you turn again.
you stand like this.
Is it the wedding dress. is it there
we walk to? I don't understand.
Wait. Emma.
Just like you did in Hudik.
-Yes.
-There was a cross in Hudik.
-Now they're lines.
-I don't really understand.
Wait.
You'll understand it really well.
It's very structured.
you can relax.
Put on your dressing gown
and we'll get started.
It's hard and complicated.
If it goes wrong.
I'm worried and afraid
that the audience
will think we're weird
because we can't do it.
That we're stupid and bad.
Shall I walk along the edge
or do a U?
-I don't believe I can do it.
-You can.
Pär says one thing. and lots
of other people say another thing.
-So I get mixed up in my head.
-I understand.
Annika. Sanna and I. we trust you.
We know... We've been with you for
awhile now. and you're professional.
You don't need to be worried.
You'll own the room tonight.
People will fall off their chairs.
I have pain in my tailbone and have
no crutches to relieve my back.
Lean on me. That's great.
Now we'll get one of Kitty's
crutches. Here!
-Look. Alex.
-Thank you.
I'm a bit worried about the pain.
that I'm dealing with at the moment
and have for some time now.
But I'm not going to let it stop me.
Hey. guys. Gather on the stage
at half past. in 15 minutes.
I feel excited and nervous.
A bit anxious.
But I also think that
I'll just be myself
take it easy and have fun.
I'm normal. This is how I look.
And nobody can change that.
Places. everyone!
Let's go.
Not long ago.
disabled people like me were
hidden away in big institutions.
Parents were often advised
to give us away...
and forget we were born.
This is still the case
in some countries today.
We want this to change.
that's why we are here today.
I never apologise for who I am.
I am proud and I want respect.
Things have moved on
and now it's time to shine.
Bravo!
That was flawless!
-Quickly now.
-Let's go!
If Mum could see me. she'd think.
"My little girl. wow!
She has talent.
She looks like a real photo model
from Vogue magazine."
-It went wonderfully!
-Yes!
I love this job!
Dear friends. honoured guests.
the one and only Emma Örtlund!
I am so happy.
And I think it's very fun
that I'm here today.
And Janne...
There are two princesses
here in New York today!
Every time I work with Emma.
I feel free. I feel happiness.
How come?
I can not explain it...
Give the next question to her.
We are beautiful and Down's
Syndrome are beautiful.
It's time for them to shine too.
I think.
Thank you so much!
You're very beautiful people!
-How did that feel?
-It was totally magical.
And absolutely. absolutely wonderful.
-What will you do now?
-Now we'll go and shop!
Look! I'm in Amelia. on the cover!
And I'm inside the magazine!
I'm a model!
Do you know how to get
the wood upstairs?
You burn it up!
-Hillberg!
-Yes.
-Wake up!
-I am awake.
-No. you're asleep.
-No!
-Shut up. Pär.
-"Shut up. Pär"?!
Subtitles: Lily Ray
www.plint.com